Dining Hauls: A Tour of Binghamton’s Delicious Dining Options
By Shawn Ammann
Posted on October 17, 2023
There are many great dining options at Binghamton University. For example, each residential community houses their own dining hall. Binghamton University graduate Madeline Loiaconi ‘23 spent her senior year checking out every residential dining hall on campus for a new series she developed, “Dining Hauls.” In this series, she gave Binghamton University TikTok(opens in a new window) and Instagram(opens in a new window) viewers thorough tours of each location. She explores the dining stations themselves, as well as the seating and surrounding resources in and around each building. Check these out to get to a taste of each dining hall!

Chenango Champlain Collegiate Center

Chenango Champlain Collegiate Center (C4) is the connecting piece of Newing and Dickinson communities. The delicious food is located on the ground floor. The video puts a spotlight on the Simple Servings station, as well as Kosher Korner. Outside of food, the hall has so much to offer. The first floor and outdoor seating are great places to be, whether you’re eating or studying.

Hinman Dining Hall

Hinman Dining Hall is a spacious, three-story building with outdoor rooftop seating. Madeline’s (as well as many other students’) favorite food spot, Garbanzo, is located here. Grab some friends and explore the various food and seating options!

Collge-in-the-Woods Dining Hall

College-in-the-Woods (CIW) Dining Hall is a quaint building filled with diverse food choices. It’s the closest dining hall to the main campus, so this is your go-to for that snack in between classes. The video highlights the Bearcat Creamery.

Appalachian Dining Hall

The staple of the Mountainview Community, “App”, has lots of great food to offer, like mozzarella sticks and elite pasta. It offers a beautiful view, whether you sit indoors or outdoors, as the video shows. Like C4, Appalachian Dining Hall is open until 1 a.m. on weekdays for Nite Owl.



For a more in-depth look at the Binghamton University dining experience, as well as the campus as a whole, check out the above video. It touches on the diversity of our food, as well as some food stations in the MarketPlace.


Shawn Ammann is an intern for the Office of Media and Public Relations, and a junior majoring in English. He is undecided on a career path, but is interested in screenwriting and sportswriting. He enjoys playing basketball, running, watching movies and writing.