BINGHAMTON UNIVERSITY DINING TRANSITION UPDATES
June 4, 2026
What’s new around campus
Over the next two months, you will notice a flurry of activity at the dining locations around campus.  New graphics will appear, signage will be updated and starting next week, Bearcat Dining will begin highlighting new concepts and offering first looks at what to expect in dining for the Fall of 2027.  Keep an eye on Dateline for a sneak peek. 

Where to eat this summer on campus
For the week of June 8, Masala Dabba will be on the menu at Hinman 3rd floor (previously Garbanzo’s).  Inspired by the iconic Indian spice box, Masala Dabba highlights the art of layering bold flavors in a make-your-own Indian inspired bowl. Lunch will be available 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Monday through Friday. 

Einstein Bros. Bagels will begin summer service starting on June 15. Summer service will be 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. Monday through Friday. 

At the Innovative Technologies Complex, the ITC Café will be open for coffee and grab n’ go breakfast and lunch on July 6. The ITC Café will be open from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. Monday through Friday. 

Dining Dollars
Faculty and staff on campus that have Dining Dollars remaining from the spring semester, are able to use those dollars at all open locations this summer.

As the Bearcat Dining Meal Plan office transitions, announcements and FAQs about purchasing meal plans for the fall can be found, here.  

May 12, 2026
Summer dining options
As the University transitions to a new food service provider over the summer and some concepts are temporarily closed for renovations, alternative dining options will be made available temporarily. As previously announced, the MarketPlace will be closed beginning May 18. Dining operations in the ITC, Downtown Center, Pharmacy Building, and the Health Sciences Building will also be closed beginning May 18 until further notice. Re-open dates will be announced on Dateline, B-line, and the Auxiliary Services Dining Transitions website.

From May 19-June 12, Bearcat Dining will provide meal options on the third floor of the Hinman Dining Center (the current Garbanzo's space) from 11 a.m.-2 p.m., Monday-Friday (Dining Dollars and credit cards only). Menu features include:

May 19-22: La Mesa
May 25-29: Boar's Head Deli
June 1-5: Featured pop-up highlighting local and new marketplace concepts
June 8-12: Featured pop-up highlighting local and new marketplace concepts
Dunkin' Donuts will be closed May 18-25 and will reopen May 26, operating 8 a.m.-2 p.m. Monday-Friday.

Einstein Bros. Bagels will reopen June 15, operating 8 a.m.-2 p.m., Monday-Friday.

CIW Dining Hall and C4 will be open for residential dining for summer Orientation and pre-approved summer camps starting June 15.

May 6, 2026

Dining Update - Ensuring students have consistent and dependable access to meals, especially during academically demanding periods, is very important to us.

As we approach the end of the semester, our dining program is entering a planned demobilization phase as part of the transition between food service providers. During this period, inventory is managed more tightly, which can result in a narrower range of offerings than earlier in the term. In addition, some operational adjustments have been made in response to the transition, including the reconfiguration of lower-usage stations and a reduction in certain made-to-order concepts with limited demand.

Many of our most popular stations will continue operating through the end of the semester, and our goal remains to provide a sufficient range of core meal options to meet student needs. The Auxiliary Services staff has confirmed the menu options and has confirmed that the core menu items are available in each of the dining halls. 

To further support students during this time, expanded menu options and additional services have been introduced at both late-night dining locations. Our current dining provider has also partnered with a local restaurant to enhance the Late Nite Owl program with supplemental menu offerings for the remainder of the semester.

May 4, 2026
Binghamton University introduces Bearcat Dining, a bold, new campus dining brand
Beginning June 1, 2026, Binghamton University is introducing Bearcat Dining, a new dining experience designed to reflect the diversity, energy, and everyday needs of students and the entire campus community. Chartwells Higher Education, the University’s newly selected dining provider, will bring Bearcat Dining to life and oversee dining operations on campus.

Built around student feedback and campus collaboration, Bearcat Dining represents a refreshed approach to campus dining, one centered on greater variety, expanded access, inclusive options, wellness, and experiences that feel distinctly connected to Binghamton. Chartwells will continue to engage with key stakeholders through student group partnerships, surveys, and focus groups to ensure the program evolves in step with the needs of the Binghamton community.

“This new dining experience is about listening to the Binghamton community and translating what we heard into action,” said Paola Mignone, assistant vice president for residential experiences and auxiliaries at Binghamton University. “With bold, innovative new dining services and more ways to customize every meal, students will have greater choice, flexibility, and personalization, whether they’re grabbing something quick between classes or sitting down with friends.”

New and enhanced offerings across campus include:

Expanded Halal and Kosher Access — Based on direct student feedback, Halal and Kosher options will be easier to discover and access across campus, including a new all-kosher truck, Nosh & Go, and a Kosher Grab n’ Go program that delivers every day convenience.
"Delicious Without" Across Campus — Chartwells’ “Delicious Without” program, free from the top nine allergens and gluten, will expand to all four dining halls (C4, CIW, Hinman, and Appalachian), increasing safe and welcoming options for students with food allergies and sensitivities. Two registered dietitians will be available to support students with special dietary needs and preferences.
International-Inspired Food Hall at C4 — The C4 dining hall will debut a globally inspired food hall featuring Chartwells concepts such as Masala Dabba, an Indian inspired station, and La Mesa, a Latin concept. A dedicated kosher station will continue to serve as a cornerstone of inclusive dining on campus.
Alumni Roots and Local Flavor — Chartwells is proud to continue its partnership with Chick-N-Bap, a standout alumni-founded favorite, and Royal Indian, a local staple, both of which continue to serve the Binghamton community at the University Union. Building on these campus favorites, the Union is expanding its lineup with the arrival of new regional concepts, Halal Shack and Jamal’s Chicken, which bring even more variety and flavor to the dining experience.
Revamped Food — Three upgraded food trucks will roll out across campus, expanding access to quick, high-quality dining, including Nosh & Go kosher food truck, Bearcat on the Prowl, and the Daily Sip for convenient, on-the-go access.
With a focus on global flavors, inclusive access, and authentic campus connections, Bearcat Dining represents a significant investment in the everyday experience of Binghamton students.

“Bearcat Dining is more than a new name. It is a commitment to building a dining program that reflects Binghamton’s students, culture, and campus pride,” said Nadeem Zafar, chief operating officer of Continental & West, Chartwells Higher Education. "We are thrilled to welcome Binghamton’s current dining associates to the Chartwells team and partner with the people who know this campus best. Together, we will build on their deep campus knowledge while delivering more variety, access, and hospitality in ways that make dining feel easier, more inclusive, and more connected to everyday student life.”

Learn more at www.ChartwellsHigherEd.com(opens in a new window) and www.DineOnCampus.com(opens in a new window).

May 1, 2026

Fall 2026 meal plan rates
Meal plan rates(opens in a new window) for the Fall 2026 semester are now available.

MarketPlace to close for the summer
To enhance your dining experience and reimagine our concepts and spaces, the MarketPlace in The Union will close for the summer beginning May 18.

We look forward to welcoming you back when we reopen in the fall. Information about summer dining offerings and new concepts at the MarketPlace will be shared soon—stay tuned!

April 23, 2026
In an effort to support the dining transition to Chartwells, Sodexo will need to begin the demobilization process. As the year draws to a close, you can look for menu changes to gradually increase in residential dining and for concepts to wind down. 

Food Trucks
Chartwells will continue operating three food trucks, including a refreshed coffee concept, The Daily Sip, featuring Starbucks ‘We Proudly Serve’ coffee, along with Bearcat on the Prowl, both offering updated menu options. These trucks will begin serving campus in mid-summer.  The new fully dedicated kosher truck will roll-out in Fall 2026.

Human Resources:
Starting this week, Executive Chef Charlie Williams will take the lead on overseeing the culinary transition for Bearcat Dining.

Bearcat Dining has hired two on-site dietitians, Alexa Schmidt and Julie Lee. They will be available for one-on-one nutrition consultations, allergen guidance, menu support, wellness programming and general nutrition questions.  They will be on site beginning in mid-May.  All questions concerning allergens or dietary preferences can be directed to EatatBing@compass-usa.com.

Part-time student positions have been posted (opens in a new window).

Please reach out with any dining questions at EatatBing@compass-usa.com.

April 10, 2026
The Bearcat Dining team is excited to launch a new logo and brand before the end of the semester.  Look for the launch of new retail brands and some highlights and pop-ups around campus before commencement.

Chartwells will continue to engage with the Student Culinary Council to gather feedback on student preferences and better understand their overall needs.

Dining
Two dedicated dietitians will support Bearcat Dining, helping students navigate their dietary needs and food preferences on campus. For questions concerning dietary requirements, please contact EatatBing@compass-usa.com

Chartwells has been on-site to assess all residential and retail locations and identify options for refreshed spaces ahead of the fall semester.

Residential Dining: 
Chartwells has reviewed the proposal with the Binghamton University team and are actively partnering with Binghamton to determine concepts for the residential dining halls.

Residential dining menus will feature halal, kosher and global inspired options for fall 2026.  

An inventory of equipment and smallwares is underway by Binghamton University and the Chartwells team to determine all available assets.

Food Trucks
In the fall of 2026, Chartwells will continue to operate three food trucks with reimagined food offerings.  

For dining related questions, please contact: EatatBing@compass-usa.com 

March 31, 2026
Chartwells is delighted  to introduce Crafted 1946, our elevated catering experience rooted in quality, creativity, and care. At Crafted 1946, hospitality is more than just food. It is about creating memorable moments through thoughtful menus, seamless service, and a welcoming environment that brings each event to life.

We know you have exciting events ahead, and our team is here to support you. We look forward to partnering with you and are committed to ensuring a smooth and successful transition. You can reach out for assistance through our shared email at Crafted1946@compass-usa.com and a member from our team will assist you with your planning needs.

Beginning May 22, 2026, you will be able to explore our catering menus and service offerings through our online CaterTrax ordering platform at Crafted1946. catertrax.com.

Thank you for welcoming Crafted 1946 to Binghamton University. We are excited to serve you.

Warm regards, 
The Crafted 1946 Catering Team

March 26, 2026
Chartwells is continuing to work with Binghamton University and Sodexo to support a smooth transition of dining services, effective June 1, 2026.  

A new dining website is now available.(opens in a new window)  This site will be updated regularly with information on meal plans, dining locations, nutrition resources and contact information for the Chartwells team.

Binghamton University and Chartwells are coordinating to ensure continuity of meal plans. Meal plan funds will roll over into the fall semester in accordance with the established policy for plans purchased in the previous term with Sodexo.

Planning is underway for updates to residential dining halls (Hinman, Appalachian, CIW, and C4) as well as all locations at the Marketplace.  

New catering menu development is underway, and the catering website will be launched in May.  For events scheduled after May 18, requests can be submitted via email at Crafted1946@compass-usa.com

For dining related questions, please contact: EatatBing@compass-usa.com 