
Nutrition & Allergens
Our commitment to your health & wellness

Bearcat Dining is committed to serving healthy and nutritious options on campus to meet the needs of all guests.  We are proud to be serving the community cuisines to nourish their mind and bodies.  From sourcing our ingredients to preparing our menus, we keep health and wellness at the forefront of everything we do. Our dining team is here to support your college dining experience.

Have any questions? Contact us by sending us an email at eatatbing@compass-usa.com

We are FARECheck Trained.
Our entire dining team is trained on Food Allergies and Celiac Disease in accordance with FARE (Food Allergy Research and Education group) standards. This helps ensure that culinarians and food service associates appropriately store and handle food, taking necessary steps to reduce the risk of cross contact. The health and safety of our guests is our highest priority at Bearcat Dining. Additionally, training continues year-round to keep it top of mind.


When navigating through our dining locations, look for these symbols to identify foods that fit your dietary preferences and to help you make informed dietary choices!


Avoiding Gluten

Menu items made without gluten containing ingredients.


Vegan

Foods that contain no animal-based ingredients or animal by-products, including egg, dairy, and honey.


Vegetarian

Contains no meat, poultry, fish, or seafood but may contain eggs or dairy.


Good Source of Protein

Food items that contain at least 7 grams of protein per serving.

Allergen & Dietary Information
Don’t be shy! If you have a food allergy or dietary restriction, log into your Dine on Campus profile and set up your allergen preferences by creating a login on our home page. You will then hear from our on-campus dietitian to receive support navigating dining with your food allergy. This will include a tour of your dining hall and guidance on your options at our dining locations.

Ask an Ingredient Expert. We have trained and designated Ingredient Experts in our dining locations. Let a team member know if you have a food allergy or other specific dining need. Our culinarians and ingredient experts at each location are happy to review recipes and ingredients to help you make dining decisions based on your needs.

This fall, you can utilize our menu page to check out the menu items offered at each location. Nutrition and ingredient information is available for your review.

Food Allergies and Special Diets  

Bearcat Dining is here to support our students by ensuring a safe and delicious dining experience, especially if you have food allergies or medical conditions that require specific dietary restrictions. Our Registered Dietitians are available to meet and discuss dining options, accommodations, resources on campus, and more. Please contact our dietitians to best determine how Bearcat Dining can help meet your dietary and nutritional needs.

Please contact our Registered Dietitians: Alexa at alexa.schmidt@compass-usa.com or Julie at julielee@binghamton.edu to set up a meeting or dining hall tour. 

Delicious Without  

Delicious Without supports an inclusive dining experience for those with food allergies and needing to avoid gluten. This dedicated space features food that is simply prepared, seasoned, and served by a trained associate. The station is dedicated to foods prepared without the nine major food allergens (milk, egg, wheat, soy, peanuts, tree nuts, fish, shellfish, sesame) and gluten. Join us at any resident dining location to enjoy Delicious Without. 

Nutritional Information Disclaimer 

Please be advised that common allergens, including egg, milk, wheat, soy, sesame, peanuts, tree nuts, fish, and shellfish are present in our facility. The potential for cross-contact is higher at self-serve, fryers, and made-to-order stations. If you have a food allergy or special dietary need, please speak with a manager before making your selection.  

Plant Forward Dining 

More students than ever are seeking plant-forward dining options on campus. Whether you are looking to reduce animal protein in your diet or embrace a fully vegan lifestyle, there are plenty of delicious choices available. Look for the Vegetarian Icon (V) and Vegan icon (VG) to find menu items. 